There were a lot of German school and a lot of Czech.
Did you go to, do you remember going early to Silver Taps?
I remember going to them, yes.
What was it like?
Well it was a solemn occasion, a reverent occasion.
No laughing or frivolity or anything of that sort.
It was there to recognize students who had died since the last year.
Occasionally have taps of the last year.
On a lighter side, did you go to ill practice?
Very seldom.
I went to a few ill practices and a few midnight ill practices.
What about muster?
Yes, yes.
Where was it held?
Guy and Hall, usually.
And was that a serious?
Yes.
You hadn't heard of muster before you got to A&M, though?
No.
Okay.
In general, the people that had gone to A&M before World War II, they have to kind of search to remember whether they went to muster or not.
Apparently, World War II changed muster very, very much.
I see.
What was bonfire like in your student days?
Well, the...
It evolved considerably during the years that I was there, not to anything like the last bonfire that collapsed a few years before.
It started out as almost a pile of trash.
The next evolution of it was
was logs that were cut, but I'd call it a teepee style log.
And I don't know that even up to my last bonfire in 53 that it had ever arrived at a tiered
And it was held on the drill field?
Yeah, probably in that city.
Now, on the campus also, there were veterans housing down south of Kyle Field, and the old project houses were there.
Yeah.
Let's see, when you went back and forth from the campus, y'all went in your own car, so you never did have to hitchhike or anything like that.
Did you ever hear any bad hitchhiking experience?
I have not.
No, no.
Nothing but positive.
That's right.
Did you travel by train ever?
Yes, a few times I went to Houston.
Yeah, go to Houston on the train.
And the train, there were a number of passenger trains every day.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, there were at least two trains a day, one in morning, one in the evening or at night.
What were Aggies, what were their indulgences then?
What were Aggies smoking?
Well, of course, the majority of
Grown people, young men I guess smoked at that time cigarettes.
And what brands?
Probably Camels, Lucky Strikes, Chesterfield.
And did many people smoke cigars?
No.
Pipes?
Not many.
And do you remember any students that roll their own?
There might have been a few.
I don't recall any.
I know there were people in those times that did.
Snuff, chewing tobacco?
Some chewing tobacco.
I don't recall any students that used snuff.
Maybe one or two would use Copenhagen.
Had you even heard of marijuana?
Yes, yes.
In fact I was acquainted with marijuana.
How so?
When we lived on the farm out there there was about six Mexican families and about six black families that lived out there, and they did most of the cotton shopping and labor and whatnot, and on Fridays I'd come in from
usually saddle a horse and ride off down in the field just to have something to do.
One spring day I went down to what we call a mountain cut, which was a field that we always raised corn on that had a steep hillside on it, kind of almost like a butte.
When I got, I rolled up to the edge of the field and there must have been ten hands out there in a row chopping corn.
And they were all singing and stepping high like they were stepping over something.
Andrew, one of the Hispanics was down at the end of the road.
He says they've got some marijuana.
Do you know where did they get it?
Raised it.
Oh, okay.
And I would notice from time to time.
But now you never heard, when you were a student, you sure didn't hear of it here.
What were Aggies drinking then?
Beer mostly.
Where did they get it?
Hard liquors down there.
Did you ever describe Mr. Hardlaker's place?
Oh, it was a big Barney-like structure down there that had tables about the size of a card table, and it would be anywhere from two dozen people, and sometimes they'd pull these tables together and make big long tables on it.
Most of the, as I recall, most of the
people dispensing the beer were men.
I don't remember any women.
And that was located about where Holloman intersects Welburn Road?
Yeah, or a little bit back towards Tampa.
Now could you buy anything stronger than beer in there?
No, no.
And I've not heard of any other place near the campus where beer was sold.
No.
A little later on there was, it seemed like it was a barbecue place over on Texas Avenue.
Arnold's.
Yeah, later.
Was Whiskey Bridge open then?
Could you buy over and go into Snook?
Yeah.
And then there was another,
up at Highway 21, that's where the sort of free state of Burleson County was over there.
There was a restaurant over there.
There was nearly anything over there that you'd like to have or maybe something you didn't like.
All right.
Now, when you were here, women were allowed to go to class in the summer.
That's right.
And what did you all think about those co-eds?
I never did have a problem with it or, and of course the faculty,
Children could go to school during the regular semester.
Now, I don't think a whole lot of them did, but a few of them did.
And many of those summer school women were student wives, and nobody picked on them, did they?
No.
No, I think they all.
were very respectful of them, and I think a whole lot of them were connected with the teaching profession where they go in and get something.
While you were a student, the president was whom?
A&M president.
Jack Williams?
No, no, no.
That's 1970.
Was this Gilchrist?
Walton?
It must have been Gibb Gilchrist.
Bolton, Gibb Gilchrist.
Did you students see him much?
No.
Now I got to know him pretty well, but that was only different.
Oh, describe, I don't have anything in them, describe him as a person, personality and all.
Of course he went on to be the head of the highway department.
No, had been.
Had been, yeah.
But the way I got to know him was in the,
late 50s I guess, it was the city of Puerto Vallarta had a big infrastructure improvement, mainly water and sewer and paving.
And the contractor went broke and wound up suing the city.
And the attorney for the contractor hired me to furnish him technical data for the lawsuit.
And the lawsuit was tried before an arbitration board, one of whom was Gibb Gilchrist.
One of the arbiters was Gibb.
It wound up being a pretty big project.
At one point in time, we had about 15 people down there working and I would get up and get crews going at daylight and then I'd start to go over to where the arbitration was and I'd stay with the arbiters
when they quit in the afternoon and then I'd go back and we'd work nearly all night long sometimes getting exhibits and things ready for them.
But Mr. Gilchrist was a, I thought a good engineer, he always asked what I thought were pertinent questions
relative to the engineering part of it, either construction or design or something of this sort.
And there was little, he was all business.
Was he physically big man, small, good personality?
Yes, yes.
He asked plain, clear questions.
He didn't argue with the answers.
He told him what it was.
In my case that's the way it was and I don't know.
But I was questioned by him on many occasions.
Now when he was president did you students think that he was in charge?
Again I wasn't too involved in that.
I really wasn't even concerned about who the president was or anything else.
I was worried about when my next quiz was.
And you and your wife, did you all begin to get involved in the community?
Did you go to church?
We went to First Baptist Church over at the Northgate, of course.
Once in a while we'd go to the Methodist Church.
At that point in time I was Methodist and she was Baptist.
I have since joined the Baptist church.
Did many students go to the Sunday services in that area?
Yes, of course.
At the beginning of the semester half of the congregation would be students and they would come over in big bunches.
And there were always substantial numbers of students in the church services.
Now where did, in that era, where did you all go to the grocery store?
And the drug store and so forth?
Lipscomb's Drug Store was over at the North Gate.
Okay.
There was a grocery store down at Texas Avenue and
North Avenue, Wins Grocery Store.
And then Ores.
Ores further on down.
But again, Rose always liked to shop at A&P and she'd go into town and shop at A&P.
The campus community was a real community.
What was there, how much was there south of campus?
How far down south did the residential area go in 1951 or two?
There was,
Mays had a grocery store, a little grocery store over at what's now University Drive in Texas.
The Gulf station is, was there then and still there.
It's at the corner of University in Texas.
The only, the next business going towards Bryan
was Wynn's Grocery Store at North Avenue, and then there was nothing else that you got to go to drive.
All right, but now go south of the campus.
There was not any businesses.
Maidley's Drug Store.
Maidley's over here at Southside.
Southside.
I've got a luncheon engagement.
But here south of Jersey Street, how far down did the residential area go?
Well here, the next block down there was the end of purging and the end of any housing.
From Park Place south or southeast was Swartz Farm which I subdivided later on.
And these houses, some of these houses in this area were rather new weren't they?
Hadn't some of them been built in the late 40s?
As far as I know, this area right through here was all established.
Now over here, a couple of blocks
I guess on the glade timber, there are a few houses over there that Bill Fitch built about this time and you can recognize all of them by that low pitch route.
And all of the A&M Consolidated School was on Jersey.
That's right over here where Oakwood School is now.
And the Lincoln School was down south.
Yeah, where the Lincoln Center is now.
And did, when you were a student, did you all feel comfortable?
Did you like the community?
Did you think of the people who lived here as pleasant?
Yes, yes.
We didn't have any...
bad experience, there was at that point in time, I won't say animosity, but there were, there was a feeling when you went to Bryan that if you were from college, if you were a student from A&M, you could tend to your business and leave and they'd be just as happy.
Well, let's see.
Now just some kind of summary questions.
Your senior ring, is that your first one?
Yes, sir.
How much did it cost?
Seemed like fifty-something dollars.
How did you feel when you put it on the first time?
Inordinately proud.
Do you have any ring stories?
Have you ever lost it and somebody got it back to you or been on the other side of the world and somebody recognized an Aggie ring?
Once in a while people will recognize it and still do.
I lost the ring one time out here picking up leaves and cool
winter day and it just came off my hand.
I knew it had to be in those leaves somewhere or I strongly suspected it was.
And I went over to Radio Shack
bought a metal detector that would find gold and ginned it up and I had about 15 bags of leaves there and I started going through these bags and found them.
Very good, very good.
Why are Aggie rings so special?
Why do Aggies care so much about their ring?
I don't know.
I suppose it represents a period of our lives when we felt like or feel like that there was an accomplishment there that was significant and worthwhile.
And this is a symbol of that.
And you're still proud of it.
Yes, sir.
Now you never, you didn't buy any senior boots because you weren't in the Corps.
No, that's right.
Did you ever go over to watch a final review?
Yes.
Is that a good ceremony?
I think it is, yes.
Commencement, where was it held?
I don't know.
Who came?
Everybody.
The freshmen, I mean the seniors and all their parents and friends.
Did you have a lot of family come?
My mother and dad, ours was in Kyle Field.
Do you remember who the speaker was?
Was anybody special?
I made a speech to us over there.
Oh great, good.
I don't believe it was his senior.
I don't think he spoke, but he came while you were, and everybody turned out.
Yeah, yeah.
When you got that diploma, how did you feel?
Well, it's something that I set out to accomplish and did, and sometimes to this day it's hard for me to really, really understand and comprehend all the significance of that.
And I guess people that have not experienced, there's not any way to explain it to them.
But your name was called and your hand was shaken.
That's right.
What is it that creates this Aggie spirit, this pride?
I don't know.
I guess there is a common denominator here of
everybody accomplishing or being subjected to the same set of circumstances and going through the same set of conditions in order to reach this particular goal.
It's a common, it's a bonding thing that
a common experience that everybody shares that goes through the end.
Are there some, what are the parts, what are the events, the things that contribute most to that bonding?
The people.
The people, okay.
Does it matter what your major was?
Is the spirit there for all majors?
I'm not sure it is today, I think it was at that point in time, but then I can't evaluate it very good.
For your contemporaries, did it matter what town you came from?
No, no.
Didn't matter what your dad did for a living?
No.
And as you look back on your professional life since then, did A&M prepare you well for your career?
There's never been another thing that I have done which opened as many doors as graduating from A&M and that is one of the significant things of the A&M ring is everybody in the engineering profession particularly recognized that ring as an evidence of
having been through and accomplished that, was required to get that rank of degree.
In general, in engineering, what do you think is the general evaluation of the strengths of A&M engineers?
What's good about A&M engineers?
When I got out of A&M and for some years
After that, the practical education that an A&M engineering student got.
When I got out of A&M, I went to work for the railroad for the
I don't remember the railroad now.
It's out of business.
Burlington?
No.
Katy?
Southern Pacific?
No.
Rock Island?
Headquarters in St.
Louis was at that point in time.
Missouri Pacific?
Missouri Pacific, yeah.
I went to work in Missouri Pacific Railroad.
And out of the group, there were about
six other engineers, eight other engineers, two of us from A&M.
They were engineers from Purdue, Notre Dame, Cornell, I don't remember, two or three other schools, no other Texas school, all went to work on a big construction job,
mainline chain building, mainline track, moving a track out of the river bottom up in Missouri and Kansas.
I think I could evaluate these, what was happening or the capabilities of these people better than other people who had just graduated because
the age and experience that I had before I went to A&M.
The A&M student, when you put him out on the job from the first day, he was productive.
He related to people well.
He knew what he was about and where there was an orientation period for most other
students from other schools that they had to learn what was going on.
Now their fundamentals of engineering was probably just as good and maybe in some cases maybe better than any of them.
But their ability to relate to people, and I'm talking about people from the man doing the pick and shovel work down here to the man, the owner of the project.
I'm not sure it is today.
Let's hope it is.
I agree with you.
I hope it is.
If you were a consultant to the A&M leadership today, what would you advise them regarding how they guide A&M in the future?
I'd have to think about that one.
I think there are two ways that, there's two avenues.
A&M I think is, and I don't object to this, and I don't necessarily disagree with it, I think they are at this point in time pursuing an academic.
a high academic achievement for their students, particularly their A&M students.
I mean their engineering students.
And I would assume all of them.
Where 40 years ago, 50 years ago, the emphasis was on the practical end of things.
Now, with a high academic learning,
most people can transition into the practical work of it, where if you do not have those academics, but only the practical experience, you are probably more limited, is my view of it.
Nevertheless, there is a niche for engineers who
who have a very basic practical approach to things.
I could talk to you a long time about my philosophy about engineers.
I think they are a unique group.
And one of the things that make them unique, I think, is their honesty.
They deal with a profession which requires honesty.
I cannot talk this table into carrying any more load than the material that it's made out of will support.
And I can talk until I'm blue in the face, and it's just not going to change.
And as an engineer, I must recognize that and deal with it from that viewpoint.
Therefore, those of us that have fooled with it for as many years as I have,
developed a way of thinking that